>> Jason Rodriguez: So hopefully you don't
have any trouble adding a couple headings
and paragraph of text and
an image to your email.
But let's look at what that looks like
if I'm coding something like that.
So we have our starter document in here.
We added in that CSS reset to just
cancel any of that default behavior,
override that link styling but
still maintain that auto-linking
behavior for people that need it.
So what I like to do is usually use
comments to scaffold out what's gonna be
under my email.
So for this, it's gonna be pretty
simple single column thing.
I'm gonna have a logo image in here.
Let's say a headline of some sort.
We wanna have a hero image.
We'll make it look kind of like a simple
marketing message that a lot of people
are sending out, some body copy.
>> Jason Rodriguez: Since it's email,
we wanna put it to work and
make sure that it has some goal
associated with that campaign.
And that's usually we're trying
to get people some place.
We want them out of the inbox and
onto our website, onto our product page,
in our app, something like that.
So we usually wanna include
a call-to-action of some sort.
So we'll add a button down here.
And then since you're sending email,
there are legal requirements when
you're sending those campaigns.
And a lot of that is tied up
in the footer of the email.
So this is where we'll add in
things like an unsubscribe link,
which every email campaign should have.
Unless it's a transactional email, it's
not required, but sometimes it is handy to
have those depending on what type of
transactional campaign that actually is.
You'll wanna add in something
like your address in there.
So people know you as a sender,
where you're sending from.
That's actually required by the CAN-SPAM
law that dictates how we can send
email messages for marketing purposes and
transactional purposes in the US.
There's newer laws too that you
should probably be aware of,
even though if you don't wanna like dig
in too deeply, but Canada has CASTLE.
I forget what it actually stands for.
But that's their law.
That's kinda like CAN-SPAM, but
it's a lot more strict than that.
And then,
have most people heard about GDPR?
So the general data protection regulation.
Which is a European law that
dictates what you can and
cannot do when you're collecting email
addresses, when you're sending messages.
But it's super strict compared
to something like CAN-SPAM.
So there's a lot of things
we have to account for.
And a lot of that ends up in
the footer of your email.
So just be aware of those things.
Definitely, if you have any
questions about any of that stuff or
wanna dig into other resources later on or
during break, then I'm happy to do that.
But yeah,
this will be a pretty basic email.
We'll have the logo in the top here.
So, for our purposes,
let's add just an image tag.
And then I have some
images in a folder here.
We'll use the logo.
We won't do anything beyond that.
We're gonna look at what a good image
tag looks like for email later on.
The headline, since this is the main
heading, we're gonna use an h1 tag.
>> Jason Rodriguez: The hero image, again,
we're just gonna use the image tag,
pretty bare bones,,
>> Jason Rodriguez: jpg, body copy,
since it's gonna be a paragraph text,
we'll add a paragraph tag in
there to make it semantic for
anybody that needs that additional help.
The button,
I'm gonna get to a little bit later.
Right now we'll just put a link in there.
We'll have it go to frontendmasters.com
>> Jason Rodriguez: I
should probably mention that
these should be absolute URLs.
you don't really wanna use relative
pads for the purposes of this.
We're doing it for our images, but
when you're sending an email campaign and
the client downloads it, it essentially
goes into a temporary directory somewhere.
So we don't really have this concept of
relative path, it's just dumped somewhere.
We don't know where that happens to be.
So if we're using something
like images/logo.jpad,
we're hopefully not sending all those
images as attachments or as a ZIP or
something that you expect
them to open up and extract.
So we wanna make sure that we're using
those full URLs, not those just relative
links, to make sure that those all
render properly, you're sending from.
Especially with images you're sending
using a publicly accessible server,
you don't have some weird read
rights restrictions on that.
So make sure all that works properly.
For links,
most email clients will generally
allow you to leave off that protocol.
But it's nice to have it in there just for
peace of mind.
For anything that doesn't respect that,
people will still be able to get
to where we want them to go.
The footer down here, again,
we're gonna add in a paragraph.
So you might wanna say,
Feel free to unsubscribe.
>> Jason Rodriguez: Let's make that
a link so they can actually do that.
>> Jason Rodriguez: Just
use a placeholder here.
>> Jason Rodriguez: And then usually,
you wanna add in your address too, so
we'll just make something up.
>> Jason Rodriguez: And then a lot
of times people use that photo for
any legal disclaimers.
They'll have that view in
browser link down there.
You might have a reminder.
It's nice to remind people of
how they got on your list.
So before we do unsubscribe,
we can be like,
you signed up because you wanna
learn more about HTML email.
Or you showed interest in this product,
you're coming to our event, or
something like that.
But this is pretty basic.
The one thing I did mention before we
started, that it's good to wrap all this
content in some sort of container element
that we can do certain things with.
So I'm gonna grab all this and just
open up a div and dump it all in there.
And we'll see where this div comes into
play in just a minute when we start
talking about styling our content.
Yeah, question?
>> Speaker 2: Do you usually, if there's
any logic around this, go one div deep,
or would you ever wrap
the footer in a div as well?
>> Jason Rodriguez: You totally could,
yeah.
So a good example of that,
we could actually do that.
And I think I might do
it later on in examples.
The footer is a good example of that,
cuz a lot of times you'll want to have
that smaller copy or something like that.
So when we start styling this,
our divs are really to house the universal
styles for that content section.
So for the main part of our email,
we'll see how we style things,
the text styling for the most part.
But since that footer tends to
be a separate little component,
we'll house that in its own div too.
So we'll just add that in there, and
we can manipulate that bottom content
a little bit differently too.
That is a good point though, is, anytime
you need to do something wholesale to
a section of content, then you can use
something like a div to wrap that.
When we start talking about layouts, too,
I'll talk a little bit about how
we should be building things.
Thinking modularly and
using modular components.
And using things like divs or
table rows, table cells,
is a good way to do that, cool.
>> Jason Rodriguez: So
we can say that, let's open it up, and
nothing too great here.
We have a couple of images.
My fun little avatar there.
Our hero image.
We can see our link down
here to unsubscribe.
But nothing fancy.
It looks like garbage right now
because we haven't done any styling.
So that's kinda the next step.
We have some basic HTML in here.
We haven't really introduced tables yet.
We'll talk about that a little bit later
on when we start wanting to structure this
a little bit more.
But for the most part,
this is what you're going to be using,
just simple HTML elements like the image
tag, like heading tags, like paragraphs.
If we wanted to target something
specific in here, that's where we would
use something like the span tag or the m
tag, depending on what you need it for.
I forgot to add some copy in here.
>> Jason Rodriguez: So
let's show that link.
This is a link down here.
I've apparently already visited that link.
So it's purple.
And then our footer down here with all
the additional legal requirements,
all that information
that we want in there.
So nothing fancy going on.
We'll get a little bit fancier when
we start manipulating the layout,
introducing multiple columns, looking
at different responsive techniques.